## 2.1 What a Rule Looks Like
<div>
<style type="text/css"> @import url("../../testnote.css")  </style>
A simple makefile consists of "rules" with the following shape:

    target ... : prerequisites ...
            recipe
            ...
            ...

A target is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program; 
examples of targets are executable or object files. A target can also 
be the name of an action to carry out, such as ‘clean’ (see Phony Targets).

A prerequisite is a file that is used as input to create the target. 
A target often depends on several files.

A recipe is an action that make carries out. A recipe may have more than 
one command, either on the same line or each on its own line. 

<div class="testnote" data-title="Test case 21A">

Test `case21A` tests the *hello.exe is built from hello.c* dependency

    hello.exe: hello.c
          cc hello.c -o hello.exe

It tests that `hello.exe` is built if - and only if - `hello.c` is newer.
</div>

<div class="testnote" data-title="Test case 21B">

Rules may have any number of targets prerequisites and recipes.

    target1 ... targetN : prerequisite1 ... prerequisiteM
            recipe1
            ...
            recipeP



This case tests all combinations of 0..2 targets, 
prerequisites and recipes.

The table below lists all 27 combinations, and the expected
result.


 | #targets | #prerequisites | #recipes | Expected result | Comment
 |----------|----------------|----------|---------------- |---------
 |    0     |       0        |    0     | Error: no rule  | This rule is just a ':'
 |    0     |       *        |    *     | Error: no target |
 |    1     |       *        |    *     | Success (all recipes run)
 |    2     |       *        |    *     | Success (all recipes run for each target)

Please note: you need to put a tab character at the beginning of every 
recipe line! This is an obscurity that catches the unwary. If you prefer 
to prefix your recipes with a character other than tab, you can set 
the `.RECIPEPREFIX` variable to an alternate character (see Special Variables).

<div class="testnote" data-title="Test case 21C">

Test prefix, and introduce a warning?

</div>

Usually a recipe is in a rule with prerequisites and serves to create a 
target file if any of the prerequisites change. However, the rule that 
specifies a recipe for the target need not have prerequisites. 
For example, the rule containing the delete command associated with 
the target ‘clean’ does not have prerequisites.

A rule, then, explains how and when to remake certain files which are 
the targets of the particular rule. make carries out the recipe on the 
prerequisites to create or update the target. A rule can also explain 
how and when to carry out an action. See Writing Rules.

A makefile may contain other text besides rules, but a simple makefile 
need only contain rules. Rules may look somewhat more complicated than 
shown in this template, but all fit the pattern more or less.        

</div>
